#Composed by Vignesh Kumar

Grocery Point of Sale (POS) System - Project 3 Requirements


Abstract:
POS (Point of Sale) is a system to manage the sales in a retail store. When a customer arrives at the POS counter with the products/goods to purchase, the cashier will start a new sale transaction. When the sale transaction is complete, the customer pays in cash, card or UPI. After the payment is successful, a receipt will be printed.

Users / Actors:
1. Admin - will create staff, add a new inventory, update stocks
2. Staff/cashier - staff can sale products to the customers and invoke a purchase receipt
3. Customer/Client - buy new products 

About Admin:
Admin user credential (username and password) will be created implicitly.
The users (admin and staff) need to enter their credentials to access as admin or staff. The system shows the admin dashboard or staff dashboard depending on their roles.

Admin Dashboard:
 From this dashboard, admin can manage stock, sales report, update user (admin and staff) credentials  / Details and customer service.

Stock Management:
In the stock management page, the admin can add a new product by giving the product a unique id (can be manually entered or automatically generated).
The product details should include Max retail price (MRP), category, brand, date added, quantity, tax, expiry date etc. 
The admin can update the existing stock details. 

Stock report: Admin can view overall stock. The admin can search products by product id and name. The admin can also filter products by date, name, price and quantity.
The product with low quantity (less than 10 in stock) should be highlighted with a specific colour or notified to the admin.
The product to be expired will be highlighted with a colour.
The product expired will not be sold.
Admin can delete a product from stock.
Admin can remove the product quantity from the stock.
3. Sales Report
Admin can view overall sales report -the products sold. 
Can generate sales based on From and To date
The admin can print as a pdf.
4: Staff Registration / Admin Management
Admin can add, delete or update staff and their credentials / details.



About Staff:
 The staff user credentials will be provided by the admin. //forgot password
Staff need to enter their credentials to access them as staff. The system shows the staff dashboard.
 New Transaction:
The staff needs to enter / search the products by product Id or name
Available quantity and Price per unit will be automatically displayed
Number of quantities should be entered
A discount percentage will be given to regular customers.
Total value to be paid is calculated automatically (Total price = (number of quantities * product price - discount) + Tax)
Following, the customer details (Name, phone number, mail and address) and mode of payment should be entered before the receipt is generated.
Once the payment is received, a receipt with unique receipt id (automatically generated), customer details (Name, phone number, mail), price to be paid and tax details should be printed.
4. Sales information:
Staff can search the sales information based on date, customer name and mobile.
Staff can print the receipt stored in the cloud.


Optional
 Home Delivery
 Loyalty points - Points will be added to a customer based on his total price. (For example: 1000 total price = 10 points)
 Admin - the system allows them to view sales insights - the admin can view products in high demand, products in low demand, total transactions this year.


Technical Design/Architecture needs to be derived for the following - Before the start of the 
Development
Database Schema/Table Design
Presentation Layer - meaning UI Screens - for all the requirements stated above - none should be modified in the backend
Business/service Layer - based on the requirements create the functionality and have them in the middle layer
Database Layer - to access the DB data


Validations
All front-end validations need to be done
All business validations need to be properly reflected to the users with proper messages to change the data if needed
All database validations need to be properly reflected to the users with proper messages to change the data if needed

Logs
To be maintained like which user using which functionality
App logs for each layer need to be differentiated


Exclusions or Implicit Assumptions
Payment gateway or payments are assumed that all goes well without invoking


Implicit - Testing
For all the development implicit usage of Unit testing code should be done


Devops - Tools should be used
Github, Maven, Jenkins must be used to build and deploy

Notifications (optional)
Sent through Emails and SMS




